---
layout: post
title:  "Proof of Sylow's First Theorem"
date:   2019-04-19 01:21:23 +0900
categories: math
---

The first thing we learn in number theory is (I actually don't remember
that well, as it was something like 5 years ago) is probably multiples
and divisors. From that one naturally arise the question
of diophantine equations and $$(\mod)$$ arithmetic. One of the thing
that I remember quite clearly is the fact that one can always think
of number $$u\in\mathbb{Z}/nm\mathbb{Z}$$, given $$gcd(m,n)=1$$, $$u_{1}\in\mathbb{Z}/n\mathbb{Z}$$,

$$u_{2}\in\mathbb{Z}/m\mathbb{Z}$$ that satisfy

$$
u_{1}=u(\mod n),u_{2}=u(\mod m)
$$

This really seems intuitive, but indeed the similar feeling arise
when we study ''Sylow's Theorem''. We will post two different proof
of the theorem in this post and the next. The context is based on the textbook
by **Victor P Snaith**

Sylow's Theorem:

Let $$G$$ be a finite group with order$$p^{k}m$$ and $$gcd(p,m)=1$$.
Then subgroup $$H$$ of $$G$$ exists that $$|H|=p^{k}$$.

Before we go for the proof, one must know the following concepts.
If you don't know them, go ahead and study them on wikipedia. It
is nice enough.

###**Conjugacy class of $$a$$**

$$
C_{a}=\{\text{all }z\in G\text{ | }z=bab^{-1}\text{for some }b\in G\}
$$

Conjugacy class of a is not always a group. Also, they are disjoint
or equal if $$a$$ is different and therefore $$G$$ is disjoint union
of the distinct $$C_{a}$$s. Their cardinality is known in the following
way.

###**Centralizer of $$a$$**

$$
Z_{a}=\{\text{all }z\in G\text{ | }za=az\}
$$

$$Z_{a}$$ is normally a subgroup of $$G$$, therefore $$[G:Z_{a}]$$ is
well defined. Indeed, $$|C_{a}|=[G:Z_{a}|$$.

###**Center of a Group.**

$$
Z(G)=\{\text{all }z\in G\text{ | }zb=bz\text{ for all }b\in G\}
$$

###**First Isomorphism Theorem.**

Let $$\phi:G_{1}\rightarrow G_{2}$$be a homomorphism. Then $$\ker(\phi)$$
is a normal subgroup of $$G_{1}$$and there is an isomorphism of the
form

$$
\Phi:G_{1}/\ker(\phi)\longrightarrow^{\cong}\text{im}(\phi)
$$


For all $$a\in G$$ that do not lie in $$Z(G)$$, denote them $$a_{1},\cdots,a_{v}.$$
One can see that those that lie on $$Z(G)$$ have conjugacy class with
element only on themselves, thus $$|C_{a}|=1$$. This means

$$
|G|=|Z(G)|+\sum_{j=1}^{v}[G:Z_{a_{j}}]
$$

Now inductively, one can assume that the theorem holds for all group
with order smaller than $$|G|$$.

##Case 1.

If there are some element $$a_{j}$$ that $$gcd(p,[G:Z_{a_{j}}])=1$$,
then $$v_{p}(|Z_{a_{j}}|)=k$$.

Clearly $$Z_{a_{j}}\neq G$$ therefore $$|Z_{a_{j}}|<|G|$$ , and theorem
holds.

##Case 2.

We are left with the case when all $$[G:Z_{a_{j}}]$$ is multiple of
$$p$$ for all $$j$$s. This gives $$p|\text{ }|Z(G)|$$. Given that
$$Z(G)$$ is finite abelian, one can use Cauchy's theorem to find element
$$y\in Z(G)$$ with order $$p$$.

Let $$N$$ be the cyclic group generated by $$y$$, one can see that $$N\lhd G$$,
thus $$|G/N|=|G|/p$$. By induction, $$G/N$$ has a subgroup $$J$$ that
has order divisible by $$p^{k-1}.$$ Consider the homomorphism

$$
\pi:G\rightarrow G/N,\pi(a)=Na
$$

and also

$$
U=\{z\in G\text{ | }\pi(z)\in J\}
$$

Notice that $$U$$ is a subgroup of $$G$$ and $$N$$ is the kernel of $$\pi:U\rightarrow J$$.
This is because if there is an element $$r\notin N$$ that is $$\pi(r)=N$$,
this means $$r=y^{n}$$ for some $$n\in\mathbb{Z}$$, which is again in
$$N$$. By the first isomorphism theorem, there is an isomorphism $$U/N\cong J$$. This means that

$$
|U|=|N||U/N|=|N||J|=p\cdot p^{k-1}=p^{k}
$$

which is the result we want. The induction starts with $$G=\{e\}$$,
which is trivial.
